# Eye_disease_detection_with_and_without_syntectic_data
The detection of eye diseases by machine learning algorithms received a significant attention because it has the potential to diagnosed earlier and treated successfully. The standard way to improve model performance is usually some form of data augmentation that tries to add new examples and make sure the model can generalizes well. But the collection of a variety of dataset at scale is the problem.
GANs (generative adversarial networks), come up recently as a mean for generating synthetic images and thus augmenting such datasets. The model utilizes a generator and discriminator that are trained to compete with each other, generating reallike images, which can be used in training the main model. Using GANgenerated images combined with the original dataset images might increase performance and resistance in machine learning models.
The primary form of this work is focusing on the integration of GANgenerated images into the dataset for an eye disease and however, relating to other methods used in kaggle. We suggest splitting the dataset such that 80% of the data is used for training: 40% are real images, and 40% as GANgenerated images; and splitting rest between validation. The synthetic data is intended to enhance the training process, and improve the model accuracy. We used Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) for classification task, to examine the effects of GAN generated data on model performance.
